Lauren stands on a patch of grass outside a home with her back towards the camera.
Two young masked people stand at the top of a small set of stairs.
At this distance, it is uncertain if they are looking at Lauren
or at the smartphone in Lauren’s left hand.
The phone is extended forward for legibility and rotated in landscape mode.
All three people pictured are nicely dressed.
[A series of synthesized voices.] It is important to be kind during stressful times.
It's hard to hold all these different contexts in mind.
Anybody that can live in solitude is a powerful being.
At a crowded supermarket, the panic was palpable.
[Human voice.] This was the first in a series of gestures over the past year trying to deal with the
profound isolation I felt, stuck behind screens,
backgrounded by a pervasive fear, suspended in time.
I think most of us were feeling it.
With the murder of George Floyd, that anxiety exploded into rage and grief that took over the streets,
simultaneously bringing us together and pushing us further apart.
Our understanding of who is trustworthy, what is safe to do and talk about shifted.
While the medical advice continued to evolve and update.
Avoid surfaces.
Check in with your friends.
Don’t wear masks.
Wear two.
Don’t call, give them space.
Keep six feet.
Protest the right things.
Don’t fly.
Don’t talk politics.
Restaurants are open,.
Schools are unsafe.
Feeling completely disconnected, I created I heard TALKING IS DANGEROUS
trying to break through.
Showing up on doorsteps, I deliver a monologue via phone screen and text-to-speech.
I explain that I just heard masks and six feet are not safe enough.
Because when you speak, tiny particles fly out through your mask at high velocity.
They’ve recommended we stop talking to each other.
They say talking is dangerous.
So I made an alternative.
I invite each person to visit a URL on their phone to continue the conversation.
We proceed, discussing danger, safety, the future.
Over the months we have learned to say things via text that perhaps
we couldn't in a more embodied way.
Could this form of typing-speaking open anything for us?
[Series of synthesized voices.] Sometimes I feel like listening is more dangerous than talking.
Is there really safety in distance?
Can we understand each other without talking?
[Human voice.] Ah, I remember how short I am again.
I completely forgot what your lower body looked like.
I never thought I needed to remember.
Sorry, I can’t read that fast.
Can you bring the phone a little closer?
Is the audio up all the way?
I keep wondering, in moments before laughter,
when our gut is about to push out air from our mouths with a force greater than speaking,
How will we compose ourselves then?
[Synthesized voice.] I care about you immensely.